
8

Automatic Zoom
(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 
Vol. 10, No. 9, 2019 
332 | P a g e  
www.ijacsa.thesai.org 
Fraud Detection using Machine Learning in  
e-Commerce 
Adi Saputra1, Suharjito2 
Computer Science Department, BINUS Graduate Program–Master of Computer Science Bina Nusantara University Jakarta, Indonesia 11480   
Abstract—The volume of internet users is increasingly 
causing transactions on e-commerce to increase as well.  We 
observe the quantity of fraud on online transactions is increasing 
too.    Fraud  prevention  in  e-commerce  shall  be  developed  using 
machine  learning,  this  work  to  analyze  the  suitable  machine 
learning algorithm, the algorithm to be used is the Decision Tree, 
Naïve  Bayes,  Random  Forest,  and  Neural  Network.  Data  to  be 
used is still unbalance. Synthetic Minority Over-sampling 
Technique (SMOTE) process is to be used to create balance data. 
Result  of  evaluation  using  confusion  matrix  achieve  the  highest 
accuracy  of  the  neural  network  by  96  percent,  random  forest  is 
95  percent,  Naïve  Bayes  is  95  percent,  and  Decision  tree  is  91 
percent. Synthetic Minority Over-sampling Technique (SMOTE) 
is  able  to  increase  the  average  of  F1-Score  from  67.9  percent  to 
94.5  percent  and  the  average  of  G-Mean  from  73.5  percent  to 
84.6 percent. Keywords—Machine learning; random forest; Naïve Bayes; 
SMOTE; neural network; e-commerce; confusion matrix; G-Mean; 
F1-score; transaction; fraud 
I. INTRODUCTION Insight  of  previous  research  results  on  internet  users  in 
Indonesia  as  released  on  October  2019  edition  of  Marketeers 
Magazine [1], according to the research the number of internet 
users  in  Indonesia  on  2019  alone,  had  reached  132  million 
users, an increase from the previous year at 143.2 million users 
show in Fig. 1. The  increasing  number  of  internet  users  in  Indonesia  has 
triggered  market  players  in  Indonesia  to  try  opportunities  to 
develop  their  business  through  internet  media.  One  method 
used is to develop an E-Commerce business [3]. Based  on  statistical  data  obtained  by  Statista.com,  it  is 
shown that the number of retail e-Commerce (electronic 
commerce)  sales  in  Indonesia  will  grow  133.5%  to  the  US  $ 
16.5  billion  or  around  IDR  219  trillion  in  2022  from  the 
position in 2017. This growth is supported by the rapid 
advances in technology that provide convenience for 
consumers to shop. Huge  number  of  transactions  in  e-commerce  raises  the 
potential for new problems namely fraud in e-commerce 
transactions  shows  in  Fig.  2.  The  number  of  e-commerce-
related frauds has also increased every year since 1993. As per 
a 2013 report, 5.65 cents lost due to a fraud of every $ 100 in e-
commerce  trading  turnover.  Fraud  has  reached  more  than  70 
trillion  dollars  until  2019  [5].  Fraud  detection  is  one  way  to 
reduce the amount of fraud that occurs in e-commerce 
transactions. Fraud  detection  that  has  developed  very  rapidly  is  fraud 
detection  on  credit  cards  ranging  from  fraud  detection  using 
machine  learning    to  fraud  detection  using  deep  learning  [6] 
but unfortunately fraud detection for transactions on e-
commerce is still small, fraud detection research on e-
commerce  commerce  is  still  not  much  so  far,  fraud  detection  
research on e-commerce is only limited to the determination of 
features  or  attributes  [7]  which  will  be  used  to  determine  the 
nature of fraud or non-fraud transactions in e-commerce. The  dataset used in  this  paper has a total of  151,112 
records,  the  dataset  classified  as  fraud  is  14,151  records,  the 
ratio  of  fraud  data  is  0.093  percent.  Datasets  that  have  very 
small  ratios  result  in  an  imbalance  of  data.  Imbalance  data 
results  in  accuracy  results  that  are  more  inclined  to  majority 
data  than  minority  data.  The  dataset  used  results  more  in  the 
classification of the majority of non-fraud than fraud. Accuracy 
results that are more inclined to majority data make the 
classification results worse;  handling imbalance data  using the 
SMOTE (Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique). Recent research about fraud detection in e-commerce 
transactions  still  determine  feature  extraction  [8],  purpose  of 
this  paper  is  to  find  the  best  model  to  detect  fraud  in  e-
commerce transactions. In this  paper  research fraud transaction in  ecommerce, 
research use dataset from Kaggle, improve classification 
machine  learning  using  SMOTE,  SMOTE  using  to  handling 
unbalance  data,  after  using  SMOTE,  dataset  will  be  training 
using  machine  learning.  Machine  learning  is  decision  tree, 
Naïve Bayes, random forest, and neural network machine 
learning  to determine accuracy, precision, recall, G-mean, F1-
Score. 
 Fig. 1. Growth of Internet users [2]. 
(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 
Vol. 10, No. 9, 2019 
333 | P a g e  
www.ijacsa.thesai.org 
 Fig. 2. Sales of e-Commerce, Statista.com [4]. 
II. RELATED WORKS Fraud detection that has developed very rapidly is fraud on 
credit cards. Many studies discuss the fraud method. One of the 
studies  carried  out  using  deep  learning  is  auto-encoder  and 
restricted  Boltzmann  machine  [9].  Deep  learning  is  used  to 
build  a  fraud  detection  model  that  runs  like  a  human  neural 
network,  where  data  will  be  made  in  several  layers  that  are 
tiered  for  the  process,  starting  from  the  Encoder  at  layer  1 
hinge  decoder  at  layer  4.  The  researcher  compares  the  deep 
learning method with other algorithms such as Hidden Markov 
Model (HMM) [10]. Credit card fraud detection research was also using 
machine learning [11] machine learning used as a decision tree 
algorithm, naïve Bayes, neural networks, and random forests. Decision  tree  is one  algorithm  that  is  widely  used  in  fraud 
detection because it is easy to use. Decision tree is a prediction 
model using tree structure or hierarchical structure. Naïve Bayes is used in fraud detection credit cards because 
Naïve  Bayes  is  a  classification  with  probability  and  statistical 
methods. Naïve Bayes is very fast and quite high inaccuracy in 
real-world  conditions  neural  network on  fraud detection credit 
cards uses genetic  algorithms to determine the number  of 
hidden layer architectures on neural networks [12] with genetic 
algorithm,  the  genetic  algorithm  produces  the  most  optimal 
number  of  hidden  layers  [13].  Fraud  detection  on  credit  cards 
also uses random forest [14]. Random forest uses a 
combination  of  each  good  tree  and  then  combined  into  one 
model. Random Forest relies on a random vector value with the 
same  distribution  on  all  trees  where  each  decision  tree  has  a 
maximum depth [15]. Research  on  fraud  detection  in  e-commerce  is  still  not 
much  so  far.  Fraud  detection  research  on  e-commerce  is  only 
limited to the determination of features or attributes that will be 
used to determine the nature of the fraud or non-fraud 
transactions [16]. The study describes the extraction 
attribute/feature process used to determine behavior in e-
commerce transactions. This attribute is used as fraud detection 
in e-commerce. This attribute determines the transaction 
conditions. Another  research  on  fraud  detection  in  e-commerce  is  a 
reason  transaction based on the  attributes or features that exist 
in  e-commerce  transactions.  The  features/attributes  used  are 
features of the transaction, namely invalid rating, confirmation 
interval, average stay time  on commodities, a feature of buyer 
namely real name, positive rating ratio, transaction frequency. Imbalance of data results in suboptimal classification 
results. The dataset on the paper has a total number of 151,112 
records,  the  dataset  classified  as  fraud  is  14,151  records,  and 
the  ratio  of  fraud  data  is  0.093  percent.  Synthetic  Minority 
Oversampling Technique (SMOTE) is one of the methods used 
to  make  data  into  balance,  Synthetic  Minority  Oversampling 
Technique (SMOTE) [17] is one of the oversampling methods 
that work by increasing the number of positive classes through 
random replication of data, so that the amount of data positive 
is the same as negative data. The way to use synthetic data is to 
replicate data in a small class. The SMOTE algorithm works by 
finding k closest neighbor for a positive class, then 
constructing  duplicate  synthetic  data  as  much  as  the  desired 
percentage between randomly and positively chosen k classes. Recent  paper  about  fraud  detection  only  limited  to  the 
determination of features or attributes. Improvement fraud 
detection  in  e-commerce  is  used  machine  learning.  Machine 
learning  used  is  the  Decision  Tree,  Naïve  Bayes,  Random 
Forest, and Neural Network. III.  RESEARCH METHODOLOGY This  paper  aims  to  classify  e-commerce  transactions  that 
include  fraud  and  non-fraud  using  machine  learning,  namely 
Decision Tree, Naïve Bayes, Random Forest, and Neural 
Network. The research process is carried out as shown Fig. 3. The classification process begins with the  feature selection 
process  in the  dataset.  After  the  feature  is determined,  what  is 
done  is  preprocessing  data  using  PCA,  the  process  is  carried 
out by transformation, normalization, and scaling of features so 
that the features obtained can be used for classification after the 
classification process is done by the SMOTE (Synthetic 
Minority Oversampling Technique) process. SMOTE is useful 
for making imbalance data into balance. The SMOTE 
(Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique) process is 
useful for dealing with data imbalance problems in fraud cases, 
because  fraud  cases  are  usually  below  1  percent,  so  as  to 
reduce the majority class in the dataset. The majority class can 
make  the  classification  more  directed  to  the  majority  class  so 
that the predictions of the classification are not as expected; the 
results of the SMOTE dataset transaction fraud process will be 
balanced [18] Machine learning used in the classification process is 
decision  tree,  random  forest,  artificial  neural  network,  and 
naïve Bayes. This machine-learning algorithm will be 
compared to find the best accuracy results from the transaction 
dataset in e-commerce. 
(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 
Vol. 10, No. 9, 2019 
334 | P a g e  
www.ijacsa.thesai.org 
 Fig. 3. Research Steps. 
A.  Preprocessing Data 
Preprocessing  is  used  to  extract,  transform,  normalize  and 
scaling  new  features  that  will be  used  in the  machine  learning 
algorithm process to be  used. Preprocessing is used to convert 
raw  data  into  quality  data.  In  this  study  preprocessing  uses 
PCA (Principle Component Analysis) with the features [19] of 
extraction, transformation, normalization and scaling. PCA  is  a  linear  transformation  commonly  used  in  data 
compression  and  is  a  technique  commonly  used  to  extract 
features from data at a high-dimensional scale. PCA can reduce 
complex  data  to  smaller  dimensions  to  display  unknown  parts 
and  simplify  the  structure  of  data.  PCA  calculations  involve 
calculations of  covariance  matrices  to  minimize  reduction and 
maximize variance. 
B.  Decision Tree 
Decision  trees  are  useful  for  exploring  fraud  data,  finding 
hidden relationships between a number of potential input 
variables  and  a  target  variable.    Decision  tree  [20]  combines 
fraud  data  exploration  and  modeling,  so  it  is  very  good  as  a 
first  step  in  the  modeling process even  when  used  as  the  final 
model of several other techniques [21]. Decision  tree  is  a  type  of  supervised  learning  algorithm;  a 
decision tree is good for classification algorithm. Decision tree 
divides  the  dataset  into  several  branching  segments  based  on 
decision rules, this decision rule is determined by identifying a 
relationship between input and output attributes. 
 Root  Node:  This  represents  the  entire  population  or 
sample, and this is further divided into two or more. 
 Splitting: This is the process of dividing a node into two 
or more sub-nodes. 
 Decision Node: When a sub-node is divided into several 
sub nodes. 
 Leaf  /  Terminal  Node:  Unspecified  nodes  are  called 
Leaf or Terminal nodes. 
 Pruning: When a sub-node is removed from a decision. 
 Branch  /  Sub-Tree:  Subdivisions  of  all  trees  are  called 
branches or sub-trees. 
 Parent  and  Child  Node:  A  node,  which  is  divided  into 
sub-nodes [22]. The fraud detection architecture using a decision tree 
consists  of  the  root  node,  internal  node  and  leaf  node  of  the 
decision tree architecture as shown Fig. 4. 
C.  Naïve Bayes 
Naïve  Bayes  predicts  future  opportunities  based  on  past 
experience [23], it uses the calculation formula as below. 
                    
                  (1) Where: B: Data with unknown classes A: The data hypothesis is a specific class P(A|B): Hypothesis probability based on conditions 
(posterior probability) P (A): Hypothesis probability (prior probability) P(B|A): Probability-based on conditions on the hypothesis P (B): Probability A By  using  the  formula  above  can  be  obtained  opportunities 
from fraud transactions and non-fraud transactions 
D.  Random Forest 
Random forest (RF) is an algorithm used in the 
classification of large amounts of data. Random Forest (RF) is 
a development of the Classification and Regression Tree 
(CART) method by applying the bootstrap aggregating 
(bagging)  method  and  random  feature  selection  Architecture 
Random forest as shown in Fig. 5. Random  forest  is  a  combination  of  each  good  transaction 
fraud  tree  which  is  then  combined  into  one  model.  Random 
Forest relies on a random vector value with the same 
distribution on all trees, each decision tree in e-commerce fraud 
detection  which  has  a  maximum  depth.  The  class  produced 
from the classification process is chosen from the most classes 
produced by the decision tree. 
 Fig. 4. Architecture of Decision Trees. 
(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 
Vol. 10, No. 9, 2019 
335 | P a g e  
www.ijacsa.thesai.org 
 Fig. 5. Architecture of Random Forest. 
E.  Neural Network 
The  algorithm  neural  network  is  an  artificial  intelligence 
method  whose  concept  is to  apply  a  neural  network  system  in 
the  human  body  where  nodes  are  connected  to  each  other, 
architecture neural network as shown in Fig. 6. The  number  of  input  layers  before  training  is  11  input 
layers, after preprocessing the input layer to 17 input layers, in 
addition to determining the hidden layer, genetic algorithms on 
the  neural  network  is  used  [24].  The  GA-NN  [25]  algorithm 
process for this forecasting process is as follows: 
 This forecasting is as follows: 
 Initialization count = 0, fitness = 0, number of cycles 
 Early  population  generation.  Individual  chromosomes 
are formulated as successive gene sequences, each 
encoding the input. 
 Suitable network design 
 Assign weights 
 Conduct training with backpropagation Looks for 
cumulative  errors  and  fitness  values.  Then  evaluated 
based on the value of fitness. 
 If  the  previous  fitness  <current  fitness  value,  save  the 
current value 
 Count = count +1 
 Selection: Two mains are selected using a wheel 
roulette mechanism 
 Genetic Operations: crossover, mutation, and 
reproduction to produce new feature sets 
 If (number of cycles <= count) return to number four 
  Network training with selected features 
  Study performance with test data. 
 Fig. 6. Architecture of Neural Network. 
F.  Confusion Matrix 
Confusion  matrix is a  method  that  can be  used  to evaluate 
classification  performance.  Table  I  shows  a  dataset  with  only 
two types of classes [26]. True Positive (TP) and True Negative (TN) are the number 
of  positive  and  negative  classes  that  are  classified  correctly, 
False  Positive  (FP)  and  False  Negative  (FN)  is  the  number  of 
positive  and  negative  classes  that  are  not  classified  correctly. 
Based  on  the  confusion  matrix,  performance  criteria  such  as 
Accuracy, Precision, Recall, F-Measure, G-Mean can be 
determined. Accuracy is the most common criteria for measuring 
classification  performance,  but  if  working  in  an  imbalanced 
class,  this  criterion  is  not  appropriate  because  the  minority 
class  will  have  a  small  contribution  to  the  accuracy  criteria. 
The  recommended  evaluation  criteria  are  recall,  precision  F-1 
Score and G-Mean. F-1 Score is used to measure the 
classification of minority classes in unbalanced classes, and the 
G-mean index is used to measure overall performance (overall 
classification performance). In this study, classification performance using Recall, 
Precision, F-1 Score and G-Mean: 
                     
                                      (2) 
                        
                                         (3) 
                     
                  (4) 
             √                 (5) 
                                 
                               (6) 
(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 
Vol. 10, No. 9, 2019 
337 | P a g e  
www.ijacsa.thesai.org 
D.  Random Forest 
The trial process using the Random Forest model is carried 
out by preparing data that has already been done by the 
preprocessing  process.  After  preprocessing,  the  data  will  be 
carried  out  classification  oversampling  using  Random  Forest 
will  be  done  using  data  that  has  been  oversampled,  and  also 
Random Forest will be done using data that is not 
oversampling. The results of  these  two  experiments  will  show 
the  classification  results  using  the  Random  Forest  comparison 
and the SMOTE (Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique) 
oversampling process. Random forest without SMOTE produce Accuracy is 95%, 
recall is 55%, Precision is 95.5%, F1-Score is 69.8%, G-Mean 
is 74.0%. Table VI shows result from confusion matrix random 
forest without SMOTE. Random  Forest  with  SMOTE  produce  Accuracy  is  95%, 
recall  is  58.1%,  Precision  is  80.5%,  F1-Score  is  94.3%,  G-
Mean is 75.7%. Table VII shows result from confusion matrix 
random forest with SMOTE. 
E.  Neural Network 
Research using the Neural  Network model  is  done  by 
preparing data that has already been done by the preprocessing 
process. After preprocessing, the data will be carried out 
classification oversampling using Neural Network will be done 
using data that has been oversampling, and also Random Forest 
will be done using data that is not oversampling. The results of 
these  two  experiments  will  show  the  results  of  classification 
using the Neural Network comparison and the SMOTE 
(Synthetic  Minority  Oversampling  Technique)  oversampling 
process. Neural network without SMOTE produce Accuracy is 
96%, recall is 54%, Precision is 97.1%, F1-Score is 97.1%, G-
Mean is 73.5%. Table VIII shows result from confusion matrix 
neural network without SMOTE. Neural  network  with  SMOTE  produce  Accuracy  is  85%, 
recall  is  76.7%,  Precision  is  92.5%,  F1-Score  is  85.1%,  G-
Mean  is  84.6%.  Table  IX  shows  result  from  confusion  matrix 
neural network with SMOTE. 
TABLE. VI. CONFUSION MATRIX RANDOM FOREST WITHOUT SMOTE Class Predictive Positive Predictive Negative Actual Positive  40881 112 Actual Negative 1954 2387 TABLE. VII. CONFUSION MATRIX RANDOM FOREST WITH SMOTE Class Predictive Positive Predictive Negative Actual Positive  40383 610 Actual Negative 1820 2521 TABLE. VIII.  CONFUSION MATRIX NEURAL NETWORK WITHOUT SMOTE Class Predictive Positive Predictive Negative Actual Positive  41113    24 Actual Negative 1932 2265 TABLE. IX. CONFUSION MATRIX  NEURAL  NETWORK WITH SMOTE Class Predictive Positive Predictive Negative Actual Positive  38566   2539 Actual Negative 9585 31487 
Experiments using several algorithms produce  accuracy 
values  as  shown  in  Fig.  9.  The  highest  accuracy  value  in  the 
neural network algorithm is 96%. Experiments using several algorithms produce recall values 
as  shown  in  Fig.  10,  recall  values  increase  using  machine 
learning algorithms and also the Synthetic Minority Over 
Sampling Technique (SMOTE) compared only using the 
decision tree algorithm, random forest, Naïve Bayes, and 
neural  networks  only,  the  highest  increase  occurred  in  the 
neural network algorithm and the SMOTE (Synthetic Minority 
Over Sampling Technique). Experiments  using  several  algorithms  produce  precision 
values as shown in Fig. 11, the value decreases using machine 
learning  algorithm  and  the  Synthetic  Minority  Over  Sampling 
Technique  (SMOTE)  compared  only  using  the  decision  tree 
algorithm,  random  forest,  Naïve  Bayes,  and  neural  networks, 
highest occurs in neural network algorithms and SMOTE 
(Synthetic Minority Over Sampling Technique). Experiments  using  several  algorithms  produce  F1-Score 
values  as  shown  in  Fig.  12,  F1-Score  values  are  increased  by 
using machine learning algorithms and also Synthetic Minority 
Over Sampling  Technique  (SMOTE) compared only using 
algorithms.  F1-Score  is  used  to  measure  the  classification  of 
minority classes in unbalanced classes. 
 Fig. 9. Accuracy Result.  Fig. 10.  Recall Result. 
(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 
Vol. 10, No. 9, 2019 
338 | P a g e  
www.ijacsa.thesai.org 
 Fig. 11.  Precision Result.  Fig. 12.  F1-Score Result.  Fig. 13.  G-Mean Result. 
The  G-mean  value  increased  by  using  machine  learning 
algorithm values as shown in Fig. 13, Synthetic Minority Over 
Sampling  Technique  (SMOTE)  compared  only  using  the  G-
mean  algorithm  used  to  measure  overall  performance  (overall 
classification performance). V. CONCLUSION The e-commerce transaction fraud dataset is a database that 
has a class imbalance. This study applies the Synthetic 
Minority  Over  Sampling Technique  (SMOTE)  method  to  deal 
with  class  imbalances  in  the  e-commerce  transaction  fraud 
dataset,  the  algorithm  used  is  the  decision  tree,  Naïve  Bayes. 
random forest and neural network. The  results  showed  that  the  highest  accuracy  was  96% 
neural  network,  then  random  forest,  and  Naïve  Bayes  were 
95%,  for  decision  trees  accuracy  was  91%.    Neural  network 
has  best  accuracy  because  GA  (genetic  algorithms).  Genetic 
algorithms can be used for improving ANN performance. 
Genetic  algorithm  can  determine  the  number  of  hidden  nodes 
and hidden layers, select relevant features, neural network. The 
SMOTE  method  in  the  experiment  showed  an  increase  in  the 
value  of  recall,  f1-score  and  also  G  -Mean,  Neural  network 
recall increased from 54% to 76.7%, Naïve Bayes recall 
increased  from  41.2%  to  41.3%,  recall  random  forest  from 
55%  to  58%,  and  recall  decision  tree  from  59.8%  to  60.4%. 
The  value  of  f1-score  also  increased  for  all  machine  learning 
methods  for  neural  networks  increased  from  69.8%  to  85.1%, 
f1-score Naïve Bayes increased from 67.9% to 94.5%, f1-score 
random  forest  69.8%  to  94.3%,  the  f1-score  for  the  decision 
tree  also  increased  from  56.8%  to  91.2%.  By  using  SMOTE 
the value of G-Mean also increased for neural networks 
increased from 73.5% to 84.6%, G-Mean Naïve Bayes 
increased from 73.3% to 73.4%, G-Mean random forest 74% to 
75  7%,  the  G-Mean  for  decision  tree  also  increased  from 
75.2% to 75.3%. Based on the results of the above experiment, it was 
concluded that the application of SMOTE on neural networks, 
random  forests,  decision  trees,  and  Naïve  Bayes  was  able  to 
handle the  imbalance of the e-commerce fraud  dataset  by 
producing  higher  G-Mean  and  F-1  scores  compared  to  neural 
networks, random forest, decision tree, and  Naïve Bayes. This 
proves  that  the  SMOTE  method  is  effective  in  increasing  the 
performance of unbalanced data classification. VI.  FUTURE WORK In  Future  studies,  it  is  expected  to  be  able  to  use  other 
algorithms or deep learning for fraud detection in e-commerce 
and  other  future  study  to  improve  neural  network  accuracy 
when  using  the  SMOTE  (Synthetic  Minority  Over  Sampling 
Technique) process. 
REFERENCES [1] Asosiasi Penyelenggara Jasa Internet Indonesia, " Magazine 
APJI(Asosiasi Penyelenggara Jasa Internet  Indonesia)" (2019): 23 April 
2018. [2] Asosiasi  Penyelenggara  Jasa  Internet  Indonesia,  "Mengawali  integritas 
era  digital  2019  -  Magazine  APJI(Asosiasi  Penyelenggara  Jasa  Internet 
Indonesia)" (2019). [3] Laudon,  Kenneth C., and  Carol  Guercio  Traver.  E-commerce:  business, 
technology, society. 2016. [4] statista.com.  retail  e-commerce  revenue  forecast  from  2017  to  2023  (in 
billion  U.S.  dollars).  (2018).  Retrieved  April  2018,  from  Indonesia:  : 
https://www.statista.com/statistics/280925/e-commerce-revenue-
forecast-in-indonesia/. [5] Renjith, S. Detection of Fraudulent Sellers in Online Marketplaces using 
Support Vector Machine Approach. International Journal of Engineering 
Trends and Technology (2018). [6] Roy,  Abhimanyu,  et  al.  "Deep  learning  detecting  fraud  in  credit  card 
transactions." 2018 Systems and Information Engineering Design 
Symposium (SIEDS). IEEE, 2018. [7] Zhao,  Jie,  et  al.  "Extracting  and  reasoning  about  implicit  behavioral 
evidences  for  detecting  fraudulent  online  transactions  in  e-Commerce." 
Decision support systems 86 (2016): 109-121. [8] Zhao,  Jie,  et  al.  "Extracting  and  reasoning  about  implicit  behavioral 
evidences  for  detecting  fraudulent  online  transactions  in  e-Commerce." 
Decision support systems 86 (2016): 109-121. [9] Pumsirirat,  Apapan,  and  Liu  Yan.  "Credit  card  fraud  detection  using 
deep learning based on auto-encoder and restricted boltzmann machine." 
International Journal of advanced computer science and applications 9.1 
(2018): 18-25. 
(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 
Vol. 10, No. 9, 2019 
339 | P a g e  
www.ijacsa.thesai.org 
[10]  Srivastava,  Abhinav,  et  al.  "Credit  card  fraud  detection  using  hidden 
Markov model." IEEE Transactions on dependable and secure 
computing 5.1 (2008): 37-48. [11]  Lakshmi,  S.  V.  S.  S.,  and  S.  D.  Kavilla.  "Machine  Learning  For  Credit 
Card Fraud Detection System." International Journal of Applied 
Engineering Research 13.24 (2018): 16819-16824. [12]  Aljarah,  Ibrahim,  Hossam  Faris,  and  Seyedali  Mirjalili.  "Optimizing 
connection  weights  in  neural  networks  using  the  whale  optimization 
algorithm." Soft Computing 22.1 (2018): 1-15. [13]  Bouktif, Salah, et al. "Optimal deep learning lstm model for electric load 
forecasting  using  feature  selection  and  genetic  algorithm:  Comparison 
with machine learning approaches." Energies 11.7 (2018): 1636. [14]  Xuan,  Shiyang,  Guanjun  Liu,  and  Zhenchuan  Li.  "Refined  weighted 
random forest and its application to credit card fraud detection." 
International  Conference  on  Computational  Social  Networks.  Springer, 
Cham, 2018. [15]  Hong,  Haoyuan,  et  al.  "Landslide  susceptibility  mapping  using  J48 
Decision  Tree  with  AdaBoost,  Bagging  and  Rotation  Forest  ensembles 
in the Guangchang area (China)." Catena 163 (2018): 399-413. [16]  Zhao,  Jie,  et  al.  "Extracting  and  reasoning  about  implicit  behavioral 
evidences  for  detecting  fraudulent  online  transactions  in  e-Commerce." 
Decision support systems 86 (2016): 109-121. [17]  Sharma,  Shiven,  et  al.  "Synthetic  oversampling  with  the  majority  class: 
A new perspective on handling extreme imbalance." 2018 IEEE 
International Conference on Data Mining (ICDM). IEEE, 2018. [18]  Kim,  Jaekwon,  Youngshin  Han,  and  Jongsik  Lee.  "Data  imbalance 
problem solving for smote based oversampling: Study on fault detection 
prediction  model  in  semiconductor  manufacturing  process."  Advanced 
Science and Technology Letters 133 (2016): 79-84. [19]  Sadaghiyanfam, Safa, and Mehmet Kuntalp. "Comparing the 
Performances of PCA (Principle Component Analysis) and LDA (Linear 
Discriminant  Analysis)  Transformations  on  PAF  (Paroxysmal  Atrial 
Fibrillation) Patient Detection." Proceedings of the 2018 3rd 
International  Conference  on  Biomedical  Imaging,  Signal  Processing. 
ACM, 2018. [20]  Harrison,  Paula  A.,  et  al.  "Selecting  methods  for  ecosystem  service 
assessment:  A  decision  tree  approach."  Ecosystem  services  29  (2018): 
481-498. [21]  Randhawa,  Kuldeep,  et  al.  "Credit  card  fraud detection using  AdaBoost 
and majority voting." IEEE access 6 (2018): 14277-14284. [22]  Lakshmi,  S.  V.  S.  S.,  and  S.  D.  Kavilla.  "Machine  Learning  For  Credit 
Card Fraud Detection System." International Journal of Applied 
Engineering Research 13.24 (2018): 16819-16824. [23]  Li, Tong, et al. "Differentially private Naïve Bayes learning over 
multiple data sources." Information Sciences 444 (2018): 89-104. [24]  Suganuma,  Masanori,  Shinichi  Shirakawa,  and  Tomoharu  Nagao.  "A 
genetic programming approach to designing convolutional neural 
network  architectures."  Proceedings  of  the  Genetic  and  Evolutionary 
Computation Conference. ACM, 2017. [25]  Ruehle,  Fabian.  "Evolving  neural  networks  with  genetic  algorithms  to 
study  the  string  landscape."  Journal  of  High  Energy  Physics  2017.8 
(2017): 38. [26]  Ting, Kai Ming. "Confusion matrix." Encyclopedia of Machine Learning 
and Data Mining (2017): 260-260. [27]  Siringoringo, Rimbun. "Klasifikasi Data Tidak Seimbang Menggunakan 
Algoritma Smote Dan K-Nearest Neighbor." Journal Information 
System Development (ISD) 3.1 (2018). 
 